.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024, 2025 Kyle Evans <kevans@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd June 19, 2025
.Dt PORCH 3lua
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm porch
.Nd Lua library for
.Xr porch 1
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bd -literal
local porch = require('porch')
.Ed
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width XXXX -compact
.It Dv porch.env[ Ns So PROGNAME Sc ] = Sq bc
.It Dv ok, err = porch.run_script(scriptfile[, config Ns ])
.It Dv porch.reset()
.It Dv porch.signals
.It Dv porch.sleep(seconds)
.It Dv porch.tty.iflag
.It Dv porch.tty.oflag
.It Dv porch.tty.cflag
.It Dv porch.tty.lflag
.It Dv porch.tty.cc
.It Dv process = porch.spawn(argv0 Ns [, Ns argv...])
.It Dv process:match(pattern[, matcher Ns ])
.It Dv process:eof(timeout)
.It Dv process:cfg(cfg)
.It Dv process:chdir(dir)
.It Dv process:close()
.It Dv process:continue([sendsig])
.It Dv process:flush(timeout)
.It Dv process:log(logfile)
.It Dv process:pipe(commandstr , linefilter )
.It Dv process:raw(bool)
.It Dv process:release()
.It Dv process:sigblock(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigcatch(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigclear()
.It Dv process:sigignore(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigisblocked(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigiscaught(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigisignored(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:sigisunblocked(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:signal(signo)
.It Dv process:sigreset(preserve_sigmask)
.It Dv process:sigunblock(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:stop()
.It Dv process:stopped()
.It Dv process:stty(field[, set[, unset Ns ]])
.It Dv process:term()
.It Dv process:write(text[, cfg Ns ])
.It Dv process:clearenv([local])
.It Dv process:getenv(key)
.It Dv process:setenv(key, value[, local Ns ])
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module is the lua interface to the
.Xr porch 1
program.
The
.Nm
module exposes the following members directly:
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Dv porch.env[ Ns So PROGNAME Sc ] = Sq bc
Sets the global
.Dv PROGNAME
in the scripted environment.
There is no limitation to what the caller may provide in the environment, it is
expected that its main use will be to offer targeted methods to break out of
the limited
.Dq sandbox
that the script runs in.
.It Dv porch.run_script(scriptfile[, config Ns ])
Run the script described by
.Ar scriptfile .
The caller may pass either a filename or an already-opened file stream.
The
.Dv porch.run_script
function will return true if the script ran to completion without error, nil and
an error if the script encountered a fatal error, or the value passed to the
.Dv exit
function that is provided in the scripted environment.
.It Dv porch.reset()
Completely resets the scripter state.
This closes any process that may still be open, removes all actions specified by
the current script, and resets the global timeout.
The script file is only open long enough to read the script, so it does not need
to be closed at reset time.
.Pp
This happens at the beginning of the
.Dv porch.run_script
call, but one may want to release all resources held by
.Nm
after completion if it is not expected to be used again.
.It Dv porch.sleep(seconds)
Sleep for at least the requested number of seconds.
This is only exported because it is implemented for internal use, and some users
could find it helpful to not need to import it from elsewhere.
.It Dv process = porch.spawn(argv0 Ns [, Ns argv...])
Spawns a new process described by the argument vector provided.
This is an alternative to using
.Dv porch.run_script ,
as most of the same functionality available to
.Xr orch 5
scripts is also exposed via the
.Dv process
object.
The
.Dv argv0
name is subject to a standard
.Ev PATH
search, unless the name contains a
.Dq /
character.
.Pp
See the below table for a description of the methods available for the
.Dv process .
.El
.Pp
The
.Dv porch.signals
table maps signal names to their corresponding values.
The keys to this table are signal names with a
.Dv SIG
prefix.
.Pp
The
.Dv porch.tty
table exposes various tty options for the current system:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Dv porch.tty.iflag
.It
.Dv porch.tty.oflag
.It
.Dv porch.tty.cflag
.It
.Dv porch.tty.lflag
.It
.Dv porch.tty.cc
.El
.Pp
All of these are tables that map names to values that may be provided to the
.Dv stty()
function of a process:
See your platform's termios documentation for more information on what the
values represent.
Only the
.Dv lflag
and
.Dv cc
tables are populated at the moment.
.Pp
The following process operations are available on the object returned by
.Dv porch.spawn :
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Dv process:match(pattern[, matcher Ns ])
Attempts to match
.Dv pattern
with the given
.Dv matcher ,
which defaults to the Lua pattern matcher.
Other matchers can be pulled from the
.Dv porch.matchers.available
table, which has the following keys:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Dv lua
(default)
.It
.Dv plain
.It
.Dv posix
(EREs)
.El
.It Dv process:eof(timeout)
The
.Dv eof
function behaves the same as it does in
.Xr orch 5 ,
except it does not take a callback as the second argument.
Instead, it returns up to two values: a boolean to indicate whether the process
has closed its end of the terminal device, and a wait status object if the
process has terminated.
The returned wait status object matches the object passed to the callback
described for
.Dv eof
in
.Xr orch 5 .
.Nm
has no default timeout, so an omitted or nil
.Fa timeout
will result in the
.Dv eof
function waiting indefinitely for both EOF and the process to exit.
.It Dv process:cfg(cfg)
.It Dv process:chdir(dir)
.It Dv process:close()
.It Dv process:continue([sendsig])
.It Dv process:flush(timeout)
.It Dv process:log(logfile)
.It Dv process:pipe(commandstr , linefilter )
.It Dv process:raw(bool)
.It Dv process:release()
.It Dv process:sigblock(...)
.It Dv process:sigcatch(...)
.It Dv process:sigclear()
.It Dv process:sigignore(...)
.It Dv process:sigisblocked(signo, ... )
Returns true if every
.Dv signo
specified is currently blocked.
.It Dv process:sigiscaught(signo, ... )
Returns true if every
.Dv signo
specified is currently caught.
.It Dv process:sigisignored(signo, ... )
Returns true if every
.Dv signo
specified is currently ignored.
.It Dv process:sigisunblocked(signo, ... )
Returns true if every
.Dv signo
specified is currently unblocked.
.It Dv process:signal(signo)
.It Dv process:sigreset(preserve_sigmask)
.It Dv process:sigunblock(signo, ... )
.It Dv process:stop()
.It Dv process:stopped()
Returns true if
.Dv process:stop()
has been called on this process without a subsequent
.Dv process:continue() .
.It Dv process:stty(field[, set[, unset Ns ]])
The
.Dv process:stty
function is provided for convenience, but there is some overlap with
fuctionality provided by the process'
.Dv process:term
as described below.
.It Dv process:term()
This returns an object that represents the process terminal.
The terminal object has the following method and properties:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Dv term:fetch(field, ... )
Fetches the associated property from the terminal.
The
.Dq field
requested may be one of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Dq cc
.It
.Dq cflag
.It
.Dq iflag
.It
.Dq lflag
.It
.Dq oflag
.El
.Pp
The requested values are returned in the same order that they are passed to
.Dv term:fetch() .
.It Dv term:update(fields)
Updates the terminal with values specified in the table
.Dq fields .
The keys of the field table are expected to match the names of the fields that
may be fetched above in
.Dv term:fetch() .
The values are the new value to assign the associated field.
The
.Dv process:stty()
function described above may be more convenient to use when needing to simply
enable or disable a single flag, as the fetch/update are done for you.
.It Dv term:size([width, height Ns ])
Get or set the size of the terminal.
If both
.Dq width
and
.Dq height
are omitted or nil, the width and height are returned in that order.
Otherwise, the specified elements are of the size are updated unless specified
as
.Dv nil .
.El
.It Dv process:write(text[, cfg Ns ])
.It Dv process:clearenv([local])
.It Dv process:getenv(key)
.It Dv process:setenv(key, value[, local Ns ])
.El
.Pp
All of these functions operate as described in
.Xr orch 5 ,
unless otherwise-indicated inline above.
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr porch 1 ,
.Xr orch 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Kyle Evans
.Aq kevans@FreeBSD.org
