.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Kyle Evans <kevans@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd December 5, 2024
.Dt PORCH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm porch ,
.Nm rporch
.Nd Utility to orchestrate command line tools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar scriptfile
.Op Ar command Op Ar argument ..
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Pp
.Nm rporch
.Op Fl e Ar rsh
.Op Fl f Ar scriptfile
.Op Ar host
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility allows scripted interactions with other command line tools.
.Pp
All uses of
.Nm
follow a specific pattern: spawn a command, optionally write to its stdin, check
for patterns in its stdout.
The last two steps may be interleaved in interesting ways based on program
behavior and interaction.
When
.Nm
spawns a command, it sets up a new
.Xr pts 4
and disables input echo on it.
The command is not executed immediately, but instead waits for a release from
the user script before processing.
This is done so that the
.Ar scriptfile
may queue up some input to the program before it begins execution.
See
.Xr orch 5
for more detail on
.Nm
scripts.
.Pp
The following options are available for both
.Nm
and
.Nm rporch :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar scriptfile
Uses the named
.Ar scriptfile
as the script to execute.
Specifying
.Dq -
directs
.Nm
to read the script from stdin, and is the default behavior.
.It Fl h
Show a usage statement.
.El
.Pp
The following options are available for
.Nm rporch
only:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl e Ar rsh
Execute the specified
.Ar rsh
program when spawning a command.
.El
.Pp
If a
.Ar command
is specified, then
.Nm
will spawn it before executing the specified
.Ar scriptfile .
Execution will still be stalled until released, as described above.
.Pp
The
.Nm rporch
program is used to execute the
.Ar scriptfile
against programs on a remote host.
The script is still primarily run on the executing host, but any spawned
commands will be executed via the remote shell specified, in order of
preference, by either the
.Fl e
argument or the
.Ev PORCH_RSH
environment variable.
If neither of these are set,
.Dq ssh
will be used.
The specified rsh string will be subjected to word-splitting, and some naive
quote handling will be employed.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev PORCH_RSH
The remote shell progran to use for
.Nm rporch
connections.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
A
.Fn match
block failing is considered an error, unless it is within a
.Fn one
block.
All blocks in a
.Fn one
block must fail to be considered an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr expect 1 ,
.Xr pts 4 ,
.Xr orch 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Kyle Evans Aq Mt kevans@FreeBSD.org
for the express purpose of testing
.Xr tty 4
behavior.
