.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Kyle Evans <kevans@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd December 21, 2024
.Dt PORCHGEN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm porchgen
.Nd porch script generator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl f Ar scriptfile
.Ar command Op Ar argument ..
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility generates an
.Xr orch 5
sxript based on user interaction with the spawned command.
.Pp
The following options are available for
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar scriptfile
Names the
.Ar scriptfile
to create.
.It Fl h
Show a usage statement.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
operates by first spawning the requested
.Ar command ,
then polling for both output from the command and input from the user.
A
.Fn spawn
statement is written to the
.Ar scriptfile
to match the
.Ar command
passed in.
Output from the command is sent immediately to the user as it comes in, and
internally recorded.
When a line comes in from the user,
.Nm
records a
.Fn match
block from the last line of output recorded, and adds up to two previous lines
of output in commented out
.Fn match
blocks for context that might have been necessary.
A
.Fn write
statement is then issued for the line received before it is passed along to the
.Ar command .
.Pp
Execution continues and blocks are emitted until either stdout of the command or
stdin of
.Nm
reach EOF.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
EOF on the
.Ar command
stdout is considered an error if the process was signalled or exited with a
non-zero exit code.
EOF on stdin is currently always considered an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr expect 1 ,
.Xr porch 1 ,
.Xr pts 4 ,
.Xr orch 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Kyle Evans Aq Mt kevans@FreeBSD.org .
